src/utilities/janadot/README.md, before:

# JANADOT Plugin

This plugin creates DOT (graphviz) files from JANA2 call graphs for visualization purposes.

## Overview

The janadot plugin records call stack information during event processing and generates DOT format files that can be processed by graphviz to create visual call graphs. It includes functionality to split large graphs into multiple smaller graphs for better processing and readability.

## Usage

To use the plugin, add it to your eicrecon command:

```bash
eicrecon -Pplugins=janadot sim_file.edm4hep.root
```

## Configuration Parameters

The plugin supports several configuration parameters:

- `janadot:output_file` (default: "jana.dot") - Output DOT filename
- `janadot:enable_splitting` (default: true) - Enable splitting large graphs into multiple files
- `janadot:max_nodes_per_graph` (default: 50) - Maximum number of nodes per graph when splitting
- `janadot:max_edges_per_graph` (default: 100) - Maximum number of edges per graph when splitting
- `janadot:split_criteria` (default: "plugin") - Criteria for splitting graphs: size, components, type, plugin, groups

## Plugin-based Splitting

To use plugin-based splitting to group components by detector subsystem plugins:

```bash
eicrecon -Pplugins=janadot -Pjanadot:split_criteria=plugin sim_file.root
```

This generates:
- `jana.tracking.dot` - All tracking-related components
- `jana.ecal_barrel.dot` - ECAL barrel subsystem components
- `jana.hcal_endcap.dot` - HCAL endcap subsystem components
- `jana.dot` - Overall inter-plugin connection summary

## Group-based Splitting

To use user-defined group splitting based on the `.github/janadot.groups` file:

```bash
eicrecon -Pplugins=janadot -Pjanadot:split_criteria=groups sim_file.root
```

This generates:
- `jana.EcalEndcapN.dot` - Components in the EcalEndcapN group
- `jana.HcalBarrel.dot` - Components in the HcalBarrel group
- `jana.Tracking.dot` - Components in the Tracking group
- `jana.dot` - Overall inter-group connection summary

Groups can also be defined on the command line:

```bash
eicrecon -Pplugins=janadot \
  -Pjanadot:split_criteria=groups \
  -Pjanadot:group:MyGroup="Factory1:Tag1,Factory2:Tag2,color_blue" \
  sim_file.root
```

## Output Files

When splitting is disabled or graphs are small enough, a single DOT file is generated. When splitting is enabled and graphs are large, multiple files are created:

- `jana_part001.dot`, `jana_part002.dot`, etc. - Individual graph parts (for size/components/type splitting)
- `jana.plugin_name.dot` - Plugin-specific graphs (for plugin splitting)
- `jana.GroupName.dot` - Group-specific graphs (for groups splitting)
- `jana.dot` - Main graph showing inter-plugin/inter-group connections (for plugin/groups splitting)
- `jana_index.txt` - Index file explaining the split and how to process the files

## Generating Graphics

To convert DOT files to graphics:

```bash
# For a single file
dot -Tpdf jana.dot -o jana.pdf

# For split files (as shown in the index file)
dot -Tpdf jana_part001.dot -o jana_part001.pdf
dot -Tpdf jana_part002.dot -o jana_part002.pdf
# ... etc

# For plugin-based splits
dot -Tpdf jana.tracking.dot -o jana.tracking.pdf
dot -Tpdf jana.ecal_barrel.dot -o jana.ecal_barrel.pdf
```

## Graph Splitting Methods

### Size-based Splitting (default)
Nodes are grouped to keep within the specified limits of nodes and edges per graph.

### Plugin-based Splitting
Groups components by detector subsystem, providing both detailed subsystem views and high-level architectural overview.

### Component-based Splitting
Uses connected components analysis to group nodes that are connected by call relationships.

### Type-based Splitting
Groups nodes by their type (Processor, Factory, Source, etc.).

Commit message:

refactor: simplify janadot plugin by removing size/component/type splitting
Remove size-based, component-based, and type-based graph splitting methods
to improve maintainability. Retain only plugin-based and group-based
splitting methods which provide the most value.

Changes:
- Remove WriteSplitDotFile() and WriteIndexFile() methods
- Remove overloaded WriteOverallDotFile() for vector-based groups
- Simplify WriteSplitDotFiles() to only handle plugin/groups criteria
- Update documentation to reflect only plugin and groups splitting
- Remove references to max_nodes_per_graph and max_edges_per_graph parameters

This reduces code complexity by ~220 lines while maintaining the
most useful splitting functionality.

src/utilities/janadot/README.md, after:

# JANADOT Plugin

This plugin creates DOT (graphviz) files from JANA2 call graphs for visualization purposes.

## Overview

The janadot plugin records call stack information during event processing and generates DOT format files that can be processed by graphviz to create visual call graphs. It includes functionality to split large graphs by plugin or by user-defined groups for better organization and readability.

## Usage

To use the plugin, add it to your eicrecon command:

```bash
eicrecon -Pplugins=janadot sim_file.edm4hep.root
```

## Configuration Parameters

The plugin supports several configuration parameters:

- `janadot:output_file` (default: "jana.dot") - Output DOT filename
- `janadot:enable_splitting` (default: true) - Enable splitting graphs into multiple files
- `janadot:split_criteria` (default: "plugin") - Criteria for splitting graphs: plugin or groups

## Plugin-based Splitting

To use plugin-based splitting to group components by detector subsystem plugins:

```bash
eicrecon -Pplugins=janadot -Pjanadot:split_criteria=plugin sim_file.root
```

This generates:
- `jana.tracking.dot` - All tracking-related components
- `jana.ecal_barrel.dot` - ECAL barrel subsystem components
- `jana.hcal_endcap.dot` - HCAL endcap subsystem components
- `jana.dot` - Overall inter-plugin connection summary

## Group-based Splitting

To use user-defined group splitting based on the `.github/janadot.groups` file:

```bash
eicrecon -Pplugins=janadot -Pjanadot:split_criteria=groups sim_file.root
```

This generates:
- `jana.EcalEndcapN.dot` - Components in the EcalEndcapN group
- `jana.HcalBarrel.dot` - Components in the HcalBarrel group
- `jana.Tracking.dot` - Components in the Tracking group
- `jana.dot` - Overall inter-group connection summary

Groups can also be defined on the command line:

```bash
eicrecon -Pplugins=janadot \
  -Pjanadot:split_criteria=groups \
  -Pjanadot:group:MyGroup="Factory1:Tag1,Factory2:Tag2,color_blue" \
  sim_file.root
```

## Output Files

When splitting is disabled or graphs are small enough, a single DOT file is generated. When splitting is enabled and graphs are large, multiple files are created:

- `jana.plugin_name.dot` - Plugin-specific graphs (for plugin splitting)
- `jana.GroupName.dot` - Group-specific graphs (for groups splitting)
- `jana.dot` - Main graph showing inter-plugin/inter-group connections

## Generating Graphics

To convert DOT files to graphics:

```bash
# For a single file
dot -Tpdf jana.dot -o jana.pdf

# For plugin-based splits
dot -Tpdf jana.tracking.dot -o jana.tracking.pdf
dot -Tpdf jana.ecal_barrel.dot -o jana.ecal_barrel.pdf

# For group-based splits
dot -Tpdf jana.EcalEndcapN.dot -o jana.EcalEndcapN.pdf
dot -Tpdf jana.HcalBarrel.dot -o jana.HcalBarrel.pdf
```
